README.md, before:

# glad_hs
A docker-compose framework for a home server.  The first part of the read me is explanations on chioces.  Skip to ["Setup"](https://github.com/aglad-eng/glad_hs#setup) to see instructions on how to set up and run the server.

Goals:  
  - Primary: To show an example set up of a basic home server.  Hopefully this will allow others looking to set up some refferences on how I did mine.  
  - Secondary: To back up my current home server setup so that I can easily port it to a new physical machine and only have to install docker, docker compose, and adjust a few environment vairables to have a complete server environment set up.
      
**Note**:  This home server is designed around the idea that you want specific others (family members, friends etc) to access the server remotely and easily while preventing others from accessing it.  For that reason specific design decisions are made for ease of access.

**Warnings**:  This guide assumes that you are decently technical.  This means I won't explain everything in detail.  For example I won't be covering how to install docker as I assume you would be able to quickly google and found out how to install it properly.  Rather this repository is more of a skeletal framwork for a basic home server to get people started quickly, or to provide example configurations for common apps that, while I was creating my home server, had difficulty finding online.  

If you need more detail on some basics I have found the following guides helpful for many things:
  - https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/home-server/ 
  - https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/docker-media-server-2022/

### Essentials
  - Domain Name
  - Dynamic Domain Name System (DDNS)
  - SSL Certification
  - Reverse Proxy Application
  - Authentication Application
  - 
Something that you will need for a home server is a domain name and ddns provider.  The domain name will allow you to find your home server from outside your own network.  This is important when you attempting to set up a reverse proxy or a VPN.  Dynamic DNS will update the domain registry with your current public IP address as your ISP changes you IP address.

### Free Domain Name
Many websites will give you a free domain name as long as it is a subdomain of their site.  I used Dynu.com for a free domain name.  They are easy to use and I found them to be the best for DDNS so it was simple to use them for the domain name as well.  If you want a specific domain name you can purchase a domain at many sites including google or dynu.  

### Free DDNS
Use Dynu.com for free ddns.  They were simple to set up, simple to edit, simple to use, support ddns with wild card certificates, and they will provide free ddns for up to 3 domains indefinetely.  If you find another provider than you enjoy I can add it here, but I found that most of the others had to be renewed after a month, have specific routers to work correctly, or did not support wild card certificates.  Dynu didn't have these issues and were great for my purpose.

### SSL Certification
Use acme.sh for the program that will certify things. The repository is https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh.
I changed its default CA to letsencrypt because its a standard CA is ZeroSSL.  Either is likely fine, but letsencrypt is currently very standard, free, and has a lot of QA support for newbies.  

When installed acme.sh will automatically create chron job to renew licenses.

to issue a wildcard certificat the format is "acme.sh  --issue -d <base domain>  -d '*.<base domain>'  --dns <dns_provider>"
Ex: "acme.sh  --issue -d my_domain.com  -d '*.my_domain.com'  --dns dns_dynu"

*Links:*
  - Change the CA: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/Change-default-CA
  - DNS API: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/dnsapi
  - DNS API for Dynu: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/dnsapi#24-use-dynu-api

### Reverse Proxy Application
I used nginx for my reverse proxy.  It has been a big proxy manager and load balancer in the industry for a long time.  I often found the most common reason for not using it was because it was to complex and confusing for starters.  However, I found it pretty simple after I found a decent tutorial.  

Nginx has a main configuration file called "nginx.conf".  In general you will want to leave this file alone.  It sets up some basic configuration for nginx and then tells nginx that each web server you want to hose will be defined in a subdirectory "conf.d".  The directory "conf.d" is normally organized to have a seperate file for each web server.  Nginx will parse the dirctory "conf.d" in alphabetical order and spin up each server defined in each file.  If you find a tutorial for the nginx configuration of a webserver/application that you want, but they are modifying the main nginx.conf simply create a new file in the "conf.d" directory and past the server{} code into the new file.

I prefix all of my server configuration files in conf.d with numbers.  This allows me to easily define the order that my webservers will be spun up in.  

Additionally I found that my webservers had a lot of duplicated code.  To reduce the duplication of code I created a "conf_templates" directory.  This directory holds default configurations for my webservers that are repeated.  For example the ssl.conf file holds the necessary lines to define my ssl certificates and my default ssl configuration.  Instead of having duplicate this code in every section I use it I use ``` include <filename>; ```  to include all of these settings into the necessary locations in each .conf file of my webservers.

### Authentication Application
I used bitnami/oauth2-proxy as the image and google oauth2 as my authentication method.
  
I wanted to use Google Oauth 2.0.  I made this server to share with my family members, who are extremely not technical.  This allowed them to be able to sign into my webserver without having to create a new account or remember a new password.  Additionally I felt that google oauth 2.0 would be well supported.  It also let me force 2 factor authentification on my family without having to make them set up a new account or athentication method.
  
If I were to choose another authentication method I would probably work with Authelia.
  
Setting everything up on googles side was decently simple.  I also found the settings for bitnami/oauth2-proxy simple.  I found issues trying to get it to connect to nginx.  My biggest issue was that there had been minor updates that made the nginx configuration change, but nearly all of the examples and tutorials I found were for the older configuration version.  Hopfully my configurations will serve as good examples and save others from the frustration I had setting it up.  Looking at the updated documentation for bitnami/oauth2-proxy as well as a [.conf](https://github.com/linuxserver/reverse-proxy-confs) file example provided by swag is how I figured out the changes in the configurations.

For the setup on googles end I found their [documentation](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849?hl=en) complete, but not helpful to begginers.  I found short youtube tutorials the best way to find out how to set up the oauth on googles side. 
 
# Setup
For proper setup you will first need to set up the essentials (domain name, ddns, ssl, oath2 configuration via gogole or another platform).  After having set up these steps you will need to create and edit necessary documents in the repository.
  
The necessary changes are explained below.  You can perform them manually or with the "setup.py" script.

### NGINX Setup
Each webserver I want has it's own .conf file in the conf.d/ directory.  There is also a "999_remaining_subdomains.conf" file.  This file uses regex to find the subdomain specified in the http/https request.  It will will then proxy the request to the correct app (assuming the app has the same service name in the docker-compose.yml file as it's associated subdomain).  I created this configuration file because when I first started I felt like it was the only one I needed.  Since then I have found enough slight differences in configurations needs of each webserver that I personally no longer use the file.  I kept it for examples incase someone wants to do something similar. 

**Steps:**
1. Copy and paste the nginx.conf file, the conf_templates directory, and the conf.d directory from nginx_config/examples into nginx_config/
1. Replace occurances of "my_domain.com" to the domain name that you have set up for your server. See: ["Free Domain Name"](https://github.com/aglad-eng/glad_hs#free-domain-name)
1. If you want to keep the "999_remaining_subdomains.conf" file, replace the regex expression  ``` ~^(?<var_subdomain>.+)\.my_domain\.com$; ``` to a regex experession that will appropriately catch the subdomain names of your domain. (the "my_domain" and ".com" should be changed).

**Note:**
These confs assume that the nginx container can reach other containers via their dns hostnames (defaults to container name) resolved via docker's internal dns. This is achieved through having the containers attached to the same user defined docker bridge network.  I have the network already setup properly in docker compose and in my .conf files.  However, it is important to know as you try and understand the files or create your own in the future.

### .ENV Setup
Docker compose will automatically look for a .env file in the same directory as the docker-compose.yml file specified.  It uses the .env file as local environment variables.  I have created a ".env.example" in the root directory of the repo.  This has all of the environment variables that I used in my docker-compose.yml file.  You will need to copy it and rename it ".env".  Once the copy has been made and renamed edit each environment variable to their appropriate values.

### Oauth2 Setup
The oauth/ directory containes to examples files: oauth2_proxy.cfg.example and permitted_emails.txt.example.  Remove the .example from the end of the file names.  

Edit the necessary sections in oath2_proxy.cfg.  Each section that needs to changed will be marked with ``` ### CHANGE THIS ### ```.  

Replace the example email addresses with an the email addresses associated with the google accounts that you want to access your server in the permitted_emails.txt file.  Each email should be on it's own line as shown in the example.

### Filebrowser Setup
Filebrowser is a basic web ui for the file system of the server.  By default it uses a file as a binary dictionary.  For Filebrowser to start properly it needs an empty file to use as it's binary database.  Create an empty fb_data.db file under the fb_config/ directory.  The full path should be \<Path to repo\>/fb_config/fb_data.db.  

### Final Setup Command
Once everything has been set up start the server by using the following command when in the root directory of the repository: ``` docker-compose up -d ```.  This will spin up all the docker containers defined in docker-compose.yml.

# Useful sites and resources
  - General: https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/home-server/ 
  - General: https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/docker-media-server-2022/
  - Oauth2: https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/docs/configuration/overview/
  - Oauth2: https://github.com/bitly/oauth2_proxy
  - Vaultwarden: https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden/blob/main/.env.template
  - VPN: https://github.com/kylemanna/docker-openvpn/blob/master/docs/docker-compose.md
  - SSL: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh
  - Nginx Examples: https://github.com/linuxserver/reverse-proxy-confs _(These examples are for swag which uses nginx.  Swag is also a great tool for many of the "essentials", but did not support dynu, and I wanted to learn a but more about how they all interacted)._
  - Google oauth: https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849?hl=en

Commit message:

Update nginx to not request auth for internal IPs

README.md, after:

# glad_hs
A docker-compose framework for a home server.  The first part of the read me is explanations on chioces.  Skip to ["Setup"](https://github.com/aglad-eng/glad_hs#setup) to see instructions on how to set up and run the server.

Goals:  
  - Primary: To show an example set up of a basic home server.  Hopefully this will allow others looking to set up some refferences on how I did mine.  
  - Secondary: To back up my current home server setup so that I can easily port it to a new physical machine and only have to install docker, docker compose, and adjust a few environment vairables to have a complete server environment set up.
      
**Note**:  This home server is designed around the idea that you want specific others (family members, friends etc) to access the server remotely and easily while preventing others from accessing it.  For that reason specific design decisions are made for ease of access.

**Warnings**:  This guide assumes that you are decently technical.  This means I won't explain everything in detail.  For example I won't be covering how to install docker as I assume you would be able to quickly google and found out how to install it properly.  Rather this repository is more of a skeletal framwork for a basic home server to get people started quickly, or to provide example configurations for common apps that, while I was creating my home server, had difficulty finding online.  

If you need more detail on some basics I have found the following guides helpful for many things:
  - https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/home-server/ 
  - https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/docker-media-server-2022/

### Essentials
  - Domain Name
  - Dynamic Domain Name System (DDNS)
  - SSL Certification
  - Reverse Proxy Application
  - Authentication Application
  - 
Something that you will need for a home server is a domain name and ddns provider.  The domain name will allow you to find your home server from outside your own network.  This is important when you attempting to set up a reverse proxy or a VPN.  Dynamic DNS will update the domain registry with your current public IP address as your ISP changes you IP address.

### Free Domain Name
Many websites will give you a free domain name as long as it is a subdomain of their site.  I used Dynu.com for a free domain name.  They are easy to use and I found them to be the best for DDNS so it was simple to use them for the domain name as well.  If you want a specific domain name you can purchase a domain at many sites including google or dynu.  

### Free DDNS
Use Dynu.com for free ddns.  They were simple to set up, simple to edit, simple to use, support ddns with wild card certificates, and they will provide free ddns for up to 3 domains indefinetely.  If you find another provider than you enjoy I can add it here, but I found that most of the others had to be renewed after a month, have specific routers to work correctly, or did not support wild card certificates.  Dynu didn't have these issues and were great for my purpose.

### SSL Certification
Use acme.sh for the program that will certify things. The repository is https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh.
I changed its default CA to letsencrypt because its a standard CA is ZeroSSL.  Either is likely fine, but letsencrypt is currently very standard, free, and has a lot of QA support for newbies.  

When installed acme.sh will automatically create chron job to renew licenses.

to issue a wildcard certificat the format is "acme.sh  --issue -d <base domain>  -d '*.<base domain>'  --dns <dns_provider>"
Ex: "acme.sh  --issue -d my_domain.com  -d '*.my_domain.com'  --dns dns_dynu"

*Links:*
  - Change the CA: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/Change-default-CA
  - DNS API: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/dnsapi
  - DNS API for Dynu: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/dnsapi#24-use-dynu-api

### Reverse Proxy Application
I used nginx for my reverse proxy.  It has been a big proxy manager and load balancer in the industry for a long time.  I often found the most common reason for not using it was because it was to complex and confusing for starters.  However, I found it pretty simple after I found a decent tutorial.  

Nginx has a main configuration file called "nginx.conf".  In general you will want to leave this file alone.  It sets up some basic configuration for nginx and then tells nginx that each web server you want to hose will be defined in a subdirectory "conf.d".  The directory "conf.d" is normally organized to have a seperate file for each web server.  Nginx will parse the dirctory "conf.d" in alphabetical order and spin up each server defined in each file.  If you find a tutorial for the nginx configuration of a webserver/application that you want, but they are modifying the main nginx.conf simply create a new file in the "conf.d" directory and past the server{} code into the new file.

I prefix all of my server configuration files in conf.d with numbers.  This allows me to easily define the order that my webservers will be spun up in.  

Additionally I found that my webservers had a lot of duplicated code.  To reduce the duplication of code I created a "conf_templates" directory.  This directory holds default configurations for my webservers that are repeated.  For example the ssl.conf file holds the necessary lines to define my ssl certificates and my default ssl configuration.  Instead of having duplicate this code in every section I use it I use ``` include <filename>; ```  to include all of these settings into the necessary locations in each .conf file of my webservers.

### Authentication Application
I used bitnami/oauth2-proxy as the image and google oauth2 as my authentication method.
  
I wanted to use Google Oauth 2.0.  I made this server to share with my family members, who are extremely not technical.  This allowed them to be able to sign into my webserver without having to create a new account or remember a new password.  Additionally I felt that google oauth 2.0 would be well supported.  It also let me force 2 factor authentification on my family without having to make them set up a new account or athentication method.
  
If I were to choose another authentication method I would probably work with Authelia.
  
Setting everything up on googles side was decently simple.  I also found the settings for bitnami/oauth2-proxy simple.  I found issues trying to get it to connect to nginx.  My biggest issue was that there had been minor updates that made the nginx configuration change, but nearly all of the examples and tutorials I found were for the older configuration version.  Hopfully my configurations will serve as good examples and save others from the frustration I had setting it up.  Looking at the updated documentation for bitnami/oauth2-proxy as well as a [.conf](https://github.com/linuxserver/reverse-proxy-confs) file example provided by swag is how I figured out the changes in the configurations.

For the setup on googles end I found their [documentation](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849?hl=en) complete, but not helpful to begginers.  I found short youtube tutorials the best way to find out how to set up the oauth on googles side. 
 
# Setup
For proper setup you will first need to set up the essentials (domain name, ddns, ssl, oath2 configuration via gogole or another platform).  After having set up these steps you will need to create and edit necessary documents in the repository.
  
The necessary changes are explained below.  You can perform them manually or with the "setup.py" script.

### NGINX Setup
Each webserver I want has it's own .conf file in the conf.d/ directory.  There is also a "999_remaining_subdomains.conf" file.  This file uses regex to find the subdomain specified in the http/https request.  It will will then proxy the request to the correct app (assuming the app has the same service name in the docker-compose.yml file as it's associated subdomain).  I created this configuration file because when I first started I felt like it was the only one I needed.  Since then I have found enough slight differences in configurations needs of each webserver that I personally no longer use the file.  I kept it for examples incase someone wants to do something similar. 

**Steps:**
1. Copy and paste the nginx.conf file, the conf_templates directory, and the conf.d directory from nginx_config/examples into nginx_config/
1. Replace occurances of "my_domain.com" to the domain name that you have set up for your server. See: ["Free Domain Name"](https://github.com/aglad-eng/glad_hs#free-domain-name)
1. If you want to keep the "999_remaining_subdomains.conf" file, replace the regex expression  ``` ~^(?<var_subdomain>.+)\.my_domain\.com$; ``` to a regex experession that will appropriately catch the subdomain names of your domain. (the "my_domain" and ".com" should be changed).
1. If you want to treat internal IP addresses and external IP addresses differently update the 
nginx.conf file at the "TODO" section.  I treated them differently for vaultwarden since 
The authorization is not necessary if someone is already on my network, and the vaultwarden
apps do not work with authorization redirects.

**Note:**
These confs assume that the nginx container can reach other containers via their dns hostnames (defaults to container name) resolved via docker's internal dns. This is achieved through having the containers attached to the same user defined docker bridge network.  I have the network already setup properly in docker compose and in my .conf files.  However, it is important to know as you try and understand the files or create your own in the future.

### .ENV Setup
Docker compose will automatically look for a .env file in the same directory as the docker-compose.yml file specified.  It uses the .env file as local environment variables.  I have created a ".env.example" in the root directory of the repo.  This has all of the environment variables that I used in my docker-compose.yml file.  You will need to copy it and rename it ".env".  Once the copy has been made and renamed edit each environment variable to their appropriate values.

### Oauth2 Setup
The oauth/ directory containes to examples files: oauth2_proxy.cfg.example and permitted_emails.txt.example.  Remove the .example from the end of the file names.  

Edit the necessary sections in oath2_proxy.cfg.  Each section that needs to changed will be marked with ``` ### CHANGE THIS ### ```.  

Replace the example email addresses with an the email addresses associated with the google accounts that you want to access your server in the permitted_emails.txt file.  Each email should be on it's own line as shown in the example.

### Filebrowser Setup
Filebrowser is a basic web ui for the file system of the server.  By default it uses a file as a binary dictionary.  For Filebrowser to start properly it needs an empty file to use as it's binary database.  Create an empty fb_data.db file under the fb_config/ directory.  The full path should be \<Path to repo\>/fb_config/fb_data.db.  

### Final Setup Command
Once everything has been set up start the server by using the following command when in the root directory of the repository: ``` docker-compose up -d ```.  This will spin up all the docker containers defined in docker-compose.yml.

# Useful sites and resources
  - General: https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/home-server/ 
  - General: https://www.smarthomebeginner.com/docker-media-server-2022/
  - Oauth2: https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/docs/configuration/overview/
  - Oauth2: https://github.com/bitly/oauth2_proxy
  - Vaultwarden: https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden/blob/main/.env.template
  - VPN: https://github.com/kylemanna/docker-openvpn/blob/master/docs/docker-compose.md
  - SSL: https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh
  - Nginx Examples: https://github.com/linuxserver/reverse-proxy-confs _(These examples are for swag which uses nginx.  Swag is also a great tool for many of the "essentials", but did not support dynu, and I wanted to learn a but more about how they all interacted)._
  - Google oauth: https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849?hl=en
